docs: split prompting from mcp (#10016)
dagger/dagger: docs/current_docs/features/mcp.mdx

---
slug: /features/model-context-protocol
description: "Easily give AI agents Environments"
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# MCP

> Dagger can be used as a runtime and programming environment for AI agents. Dagger provides an `LLM` core type that enables native integration of Large Language Models (LLM) in your workflows.

Reviewer: We should change this to be different from the LLM page and explain MCP, also cross-link between the two pages.

Author: Maybe. The idea is that the "llm" feature page is mainly about prompt mode in shell. The "mcp" page has all things about writing agents in dagger code, tool calling, etc

> MCP support in Dagger can be broken into three categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model Context Protocol (MCP) support in Dagger can be broken into three categories:
```

Expand first use

TODO: Insert diagram

### LLM Bindings

Here's an example of Dagger's LLM bindings in action:

<Tabs groupId="shell">

<TabItem value="Dagger Shell">
```shell title="First type 'dagger' for interactive mode."
llm | with-container $(container | from alpine) | with-prompt "You have an alpine container. Install tools to develop with Python." | container | terminal
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="System shell">
```shell
dagger <<EOF
llm |
  with-container \$(container | from alpine) |
  with-prompt "You have an alpine container. Install tools to develop with Python." |
  container |
  terminal
EOF
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

![LLM bindings](/img/current_docs/features/llm-api.gif)

### Agent loop

Consider the following Dagger Function:

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="Go">
```go file=../agents/snippets/coding-agent/go/main.go
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Python">
```python file=../agents/snippets/coding-agent/python/src/coding_agent/main.py
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="TypeScript">
```typescript file=../agents/snippets/coding-agent/typescript/src/index.ts
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> This Dagger Function creates a new LLM, gives it a workspace container with an assignment, and prompts it to complete the assignment. The LLM then runs in a loop, calling tools and iterating on its work, until it completes the assignment. This loop all happens inside of the LLM object, so the value of `result` is the workspace container with the completed assignment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Dagger Function creates a new LLM, gives it an environment (a container with various tools) with an assignment, and prompts it to complete the assignment. The LLM then runs in a loop, calling tools and iterating on its work, until it completes the assignment. This loop all happens inside of the LLM object, so the value of `result` is the environment with the completed assignment.
```
